# Governance Mining

## Summary

DOUGH Staking creates a value accrual mechanism for token holders by promoting long-term alignment and rewards active participation in the DAO with cashflow.

## Background

The PieDAO community has long discussed implementing single asset staking for DOUGH, as well as a mechanism for fee distribution.

The DOUGH staking design is shaped to add **valuable utility**, promote **long-term alignment**, and **encourage participation** in the decision-making process.

The proposed staking framework serves as a mechanism to distribute protocol fees as well as other revenues generated by the DAO.

## Implementation

* [Smart Contracts - DOUGH Staking](https://github.com/pie-dao/dough-staking).
* [Deployment preview \(Rinkeby\)](https://deploy-preview-185--nightly-pools-piedao.netlify.app/#/new_staking)
* [DOUGH Staking Subgraph](https://github.com/pie-dao/piedao-subgraph-development)

## Specifications

### **High-level concept**

* Governance Mining means revenues are shared with DOUGH stakers actively participating in governance.
* Long-term committed capital is more valuable than short-term committed capital, for this reason, long commitments are granted with extra incentives such as more voting power and a higher portion of rewards.
* veDOUGH holders \(aka DOUGH Stakers\) receive cash flow in a diverse basket of tokens knows as "Reward Pie".

### veDOUGH

veDOUGH uses a lock-up weight system. The number of veDOUGH obtained by staking DOUGH is determined by two elements: The `stakedAmount` of DOUGH and the `timeCommitment`.

Locking DOUGH is allowed for a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 36 months. The multiplier follows the curve: `y=x/k*log(x)`

After the lockup expires, the user can withdraw their stake and **will not be able to vote anymore**.

Anyone can call the `eject` function to push out an expired lockup and force-unstake the tokens for that address, as such anyone can make sure free riding is prevented.

**Quorum requirement for veDOUGH**  
In order to pass a PIP 5% of the total supply of veDOUGH has to vote of which 60% in favour of the proposal.

### The Reward Pie

The Reward Pie is a regular [PieVault](https://github.com/pie-dao/PieVaults) where the function `joinPool` is disabled.

The RewardsPie is used to distribute the DAO's revenues. The underlying assets of the RewardsPie will not be used productively and are therefore enabled for meta-governance at any time.

####  **Definition of revenues**

_\(Optional\)_ The DAO might decide to add to the Reward Pie rewards in DOUGH.

1. Fees accrued in the [Fee Pot](https://zapper.fi/account/0xaf2fe0d4fe879066b2baa68d9e56cc375df22815), coming from either Pies or DOUGHpamine \(~$118k\).
2. Farmed tokens by the treasury . See [Treasury Farming Committee](https://forum.piedao.org/t/treasury-farming-initialization/892/9).

#### **Revenues distribution breakdown**

* 60% is directly distributed to veDOUGH holders
* 25% is used to compound the treasury principle
* 15% is used to cover operational costs.

## Governance Mining

* veDOUGH holders who did at least one vote during the last 30 days are able claim their rewards.
* veDOUGH holders idle for &gt;90 days have their rewards redistributed to everybody else.

### **Definition of active participation**

The veDOUGH contract had an embedded system to gate the claim of rewards. It does that by using a merkle root to verify that the address claiming is eligible to do so. This system allows for participation to be tracked offchain and therefore easily evolve over time.

## Resources

 [Long-term Alignment in Cryptonetworks & DAOs](https://boardroom.mirror.xyz/bbsycl6pCNQ4503O8Cqkq7yaI3uJtJ4LhI9zj91-E-M)

## Conclusions

[PIP-60](https://snapshot.org/#/piedao/proposal/QmYYo1CWXBtasWCNK1Qgb2XWno7acUzJCkdP6vEA7oNwEE) Voting confirmed DAO agreement to:

1. Deploy the staking & veDOUGH contracts \(See: implementation section\).
2. Deploy the Rewards Pie.
3. Distribute DAO Revenues to veDOUGH Holders according to "Revenues distribution breakdown".
4. Change the current snapshot strategy to only allow veDOUGH holders to vote.
5. Accept only PIPs that have the "Quorum requirement for veDOUGH"

##  

